BMW with the 1-series and only with the
a3 rule the roost in the medium
hatchback segment and Volvo knew they
had to do something different and here
it is this is a Volvo v40 hatchback and
yes as you can see it's quite striking
it's probably up there with the Alfa
Romeo Giulietta it's away from the blond
designs of the German manufacturers it
looks good but it is it any good to
drive is any good on a price call a
front let's go and find out
it's been a long time since Volvo made
it classy and sleek 5-door hatchback but
from the contours on the bonnet right up
this roofline which is a bit coupe a
esque it really is a really striking car
the design leaves the German
manufacturers like BMW and Audi well
behind Volvo v40 ash bike is rather
plush inside it's got the the leather
seats and talking about the seats these
are some of the most comfortable seats
possibly in the car industry
boström for your bike is brilliant side
sports very very good and it's just very
comfy on long journeys the plastics well
they're soft to touch and very neatly
designed there's plenty of kit on this
this trim level the test card we have is
SE so you've got now if you've got radio
you can media you've all screw up my car
options which means you can have like
safety items like city safety alerts on
Drive alerts on or even collision
warning alerts on or off this cruise
control on the steering wheel so you
never have to move your hands off the
steering wheel and there's also volume
controls and bluetooth connections as
well so that you can control the phone
or you control your radio or CD
brilliant you've also got the floating
console in the v40 hatchback this was
first seen in the Volvo s40 and it's
quite nifty this one is in brushed
aluminium and behind it you've somewhere
to put your phone or maybe loose change
for the car protimeter so yeah as you
can see the Volvo v40 hatchback is a
very very pleasant carbon to spend time
in
for a pill we give Volvo's before a
hatchback four stars
the Volvo has one of the biggest boots
in the sector left the birds and you can
see there's quite a lot of room in here
402 litres actually with the seats in
place and that's bigger than an ID a3
the a3 is 365 litres
we can also left this level we get a
little more space in here lay it like
that we get a few items stored neither
sides or on the flat put it back down
again you get the flat pads if we go
inside we can expand the boot to 1032
liters
when it comes to practically we give the
Volvo v40 five stars under the bonnet is
got the 2-liter diesel d5 engine that
produces 175 brake horsepower and get
can get from 0 to 60 mile an hour any
0.2 seconds this engine is pretty lively
and it propels the Volvo along nicely
it's great on the more away as well but
one downside is you'll need to keep an
eye on our speedo or you'll be creeping
over the national limit the Volvo were
permitted as a top speed of 130 for
Milan R which is pretty good on the
performance front we give the Volvo v40
three and a half stars on the ride and
handling though however the Volvo isn't
so good it's not so dynamic through the
bends it's it's quite nimble and agile
for you know for the size of this car
but the bm1 series on the ODA 3 just
feel a little bit better right and
handling we give the Volvo 3 stars it's
not quite up to the BMW 1-series or even
a book so I can go
the entry-level EES version includes
Volvo City safety system a pedestrian
airbag which is a world-first Bluetooth
5 inch color display screen electronic
climate control and 16-inch alloy wheels
move up to the SE and the trim we had
you get all that kit plus text LT tech
upholstery graphite n lace cruise
control steering wheel remote controls
keyless start electric dormers grown
lighting on chrome exterior trim all the
v40 nav models has a fully integrated
sat-nav with voice recognition on a
seven-inch color display and the DVD
player on ownership we give the bulb
will be forty four and a half stars this
is where it probably comes into its own
so as the V porting hatchback achieves
what it was set out to do well yes and
no it is much much better than the s
forty
but is as good as the competition no not
yet if you want something left build
that you know is going to be reliable
and see if then the v40 is your bike
remember this Volvo has got a world
first it comes with a pedestrian airbag
is standard their system uses sensors
built into the front bumper and will
deploy the airbag if the system things
the car is about to hit a pedestrian
this should reduce injury to pedestrians
in the event of an accident the Volvo
v40 is priced to twenty four thousand
seven hundred and ninety five points and
it will average sixty five point seven
mpg probably in real world terms you're
going to get high fifties so that's
pretty good the Volvo is a perfect flip
car and it's a perfect from the H bike
overall we give the Volvo v40 four motor
torque stars
you